---
name: 2020 FRC Robot with Vision & Autonomous
image: image5.png
summary: Software for Clayton High School's robotics team, including driving, vision processing, and path navigation.
---
As the programming team lead for Clayton High School's robotics team, I solved the hardest software problems. Our team built an extremely capable robot, and I definitely could not have programmed all these features without the great craftsmanship of the mechanical and electrical engineers. 

I have 3 main features that I’m proud of:

1. Autonomous - For the first time, our team had a robot which could follow paths on its own, allowing much more complex automated functions. We could chain actions, such as: follow this path, pick up these balls, follow this other path, shoot the balls, etc. I was able to use the [2020 Simulation](/big_projects/simulations.html) to develop this feature before the robot even existed.

2. Vision Processing - Our robot has a turret which would be a pain to aim manually. So, using a vision camera, we were able to automate the alignment of the turret, so drivers could shoot freely without worrying about aiming. Again, our team has never had complex vision capabilities.

3. Swerve Drive - The drive base of our robot moves like an office chair, and the behaviour is pretty complicated. While we had this for our 2019 robot, I essentially rewrote the whole thing in a much cleaner and extendable fashion, which also allowed me to use the [2020 Simulation](/big_projects/simulations.html) in the first place.

The whole thing is made with Java using WPILib and VS Code.

## Videos

Here’s a video with all the key features I described: autonomous path following, automatic turret alignment using vision, and swerve drive!
<iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1WFfkga1jzP9Qv9PTBZgpJBUCc82E9lUg/preview" class="video"></iframe>

Here's another video with more complex pathing. Notice how the robot's orientation and movement are independent. Side note: the balls shot at the end missed because the turret has angle limits and I forgot to rotate the robot back.

<iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mpulK-NjuStD4f2-7zX27xa2HP8PKDId/preview" class="video"></iframe>

## Additional Links

Our code is hosted on Github, if you wish to take a look.
[https://github.com/FRCTeam4500/2020Robot](https://github.com/FRCTeam4500/2020Robot)